---
title: "VueJS Introducing Dynamic Layouts using the Atomic Design Principles"
description: "For this month, Niclas - a frontend developer from the Sysarb SWE team has introduced a new architecture in the project client that can help scale and maintain the project better in the long-run."
date: 2024-10-01
image: https://images.pexels.com/photos/256502/pexels-photo-256502.jpeg?auto=compress&cs=tinysrgb&h=650&w=940
minRead: 2
author:
  name: Sean Erick C. Ramones
  avatar:
    src: /avatars/profile-image-1.png
    alt: Sean Erick C. Ramones
---
# [Vue][October 2024] - VueJS Introducing Dynamic Layouts using the Atomic Design Principles

Sources: [[https://atomicdesign.bradfrost.com/chapter-2/](https://atomicdesign.bradfrost.com/chapter-2/), [https://www.vuemastery.com/blog/dynamic-layouts-with-vue-jsx/#introducing-dynamic-layouts](https://www.vuemastery.com/blog/dynamic-layouts-with-vue-jsx/#introducing-dynamic-layouts)]

For this month, Niclas - a frontend developer from the Sysarb SWE team has introduced a new architecture in the project client that can help scale and maintain the project better in the long-run.

> The Problem: Fast-paced implementations but frequent changes in the UI.
> 

Creating UIs might be easy, but the hard part is maintaining them. The problem I frequently address when working on tasks during a sprint is mostly when there are scope changes - usually when I am currently working on. While we had moved to use a more centralized way of fetching and managing data thru the use of `vue-composables`  and `pinia-stores` , it doesn’t really help making the new changes fast since most of it involves the UI. 

> The Solution? Using Dynamic Template Layouts
> 

Introducing the new atomic design principles, we can make views by abstracting them thru templates. This way we separate component-views to sections of the templates, and that way we also segregate certain data and reusability of certain parts. This helps us especially when there are new layout changes - if the changes are top-level layouts, we can easily move/create new templates and punch in the existing view-components. 

> The Down-sides of the approach
> 

It involves another layer of abstraction in the view. Meaning you can’t create pages without declaring a template for it first. While this is helpful if you have different views with the same layout template, it is kind of redundant to add it if you only want a single-view template. But the thing here is that, we are prepared to move things around should there be new scope changes. And that saves us time 😄. 

### Take-away

Using **Atomic Design Principles** together with `Dynamic Layout Templates` in this way allows you to create highly reusable and maintainable components and page-views, which are essential for scalable design systems in `Vue.js` applications.

We are currently using this approach, and is somewhat of an experimental period. So far, it has worked, together with the ongoing migrations from foundation-css library to the new Bootstrap v5 library. I also think this will continue to help the client when the Sysarb UI Library is published by Niclas.
